Getting Set Up For the Course
In this course, we will be using some code that could be dangerous if it is run on a real machine.

The code we will be using can:

	1) cause overheating
	2) crash programs
	3) corrupt the operating system

In addition, legal issues can arise if you intentionally or unintentionally harm other people’s devices using the tools and skills you will learn in this course.

To avoid these risks, we will use virtual machines for the exercises and the project in this course. The virtual machines will provide a safe and legal environment to learn and practice your hacking skills.

Steps To Set Up The Course Environment:

1) Download and install VirtualBox

2)Create a NAT network by selecting File > Tools > Network Manager > NAT Networks tab:
	Name - ExampleCorpNet
	CIDR - 10.10.10.0/24

3) Download Kali Linux for VirtualBox from the official site

4) Add the Kali Linux machine to your VirutalBox by simply running the vbox file. During the course, this machine is referred to as 'analyst' or 'attacker' machine.

5) Configure the network settings in the machine by selecting Machine > Settings > Network > Adapter 2 and choosing the NAT network you just created

6) Configure and update your machine (instructions below)

7) Download the target virtual machines

8) Import the course .ova files by selecting File > Import Appliance

9) Configure the network settings in each machine by selecting Machine > Settings > Network > Adapter 1 and choosing the NAT network you just created

Course Virtual Machines Download Links:

	1) TestLab Machine - TestLab.ova(https://udacity-ehnd.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/Ethical+Hacker/TestLab.ova)
	2) SBvA Machine - SBVA.ova(https://udacity-ehnd.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/Ethical+Hacker/SBVA.ova)

Note:

1) The .ova files are very large and may take a long time to download if you have a slow internet connection.

2) Ensure the target VM is turned on and remains on the login page during the scan. Do not log in to the target VM.

Configuring Hosts in the Kali Linux Machine:

To ensure you can reach the target machines during the course, you need to edit the hosts file on your Kali Linux machine. Follow these steps:

1) Open a Terminal:
	Press Ctrl+Alt+T to open a terminal window.

2) Edit the Hosts File:

	Run the following command to open the hosts file in the Nano text editor:
	sudo nano /etc/hosts

3) Add Target Host Entries:
	In the Nano editor, add the following lines to the file:
	10.10.10.10    example.com
	10.10.10.15    testlab.example.com testlab.local
	10.10.10.101   sbva.local

4) Save and Exit Nano:
	Press Ctrl+X to begin the process of exiting the Nano editor.
	When prompted to save changes, press Y (for "Yes").
	Press Enter to confirm the file name and save the changes.

Your hosts file is now configured, allowing you to reach the specified targets by their hostnames.

Updating Your Kali Linux Machine:

After downloading and adding the Kali Linux machine, it is important to ensure it has the latest software versions. Follow these steps to update your Kali Linux machine:

	Login to the Kali Linux Machine:
		Use the default credentials to login:
			Username: kali
			Password: kali

	Update the System:
		Open a terminal and run the following commands to update and upgrade all packages:
			sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade

These commands will download and install the latest updates for all installed packages, ensuring your Kali Linux machine is up-to-date.