Setting Up GoPhish

GoPhish is included in Kali Linux by default, but if you need to install it, use this guide:

Instructions For Setting Up GoPhish on the Analyst Machine

1) Download the latest version of GoPhish for Linux at: https://getgophish.com

2) Extract all the files to a folder and open a terminal in that folder

3) Add executable permissions to GoPhish file:

chmod +x gophish

1) Start the GoPhish server:

./gophish

1) Find the credentials for the login page in the terminal window. Look for the username admin followed by a long random password.

2) Open a browser and visit https://127.0.0.1:3333

3) Ignore the SSL warning and sign in using the admin credentials to reach the password reset screen.

Setting Up A Phishing Campaign: Part 1

Phase 1 - Configure The Sending Profile

1) Login to Gophish using the provided credentials

2) Navigate to the Sending Profile page and click on the New Profile button.

3) Fill in all fields:
	Name: any name you choose
	From: the name and address the user will see using the formatName <Email>
	Host: your email provider's SMTP Host using the format SMTP Server Address:Port
	Username: the email address you want to use to send the emails from
	Password: the password for the email address you provided

4) Send a test email to yourself using the Send Test Email button to confirm that it works.

Phase 2 - Create Users and Groups

1) Navigate to the Users & Groups tab and click on New Group.

2) Fill in the Name field. You can give any name you wish in the Name field. For Example: All Users.

3) Click on the Bull Import Users button to import users from a CSV file or add them manually.

4) Add users manually by entering the data in the required fields for each user:
	First Name
	Last Name
	Email address
	Position

5) Click Save changes after all users have been added.

Phase 3 - Configure The Landing Page

1) Navigate to the Landing Pages page and click on the New Page button.

2) Give the page a Name

3) Enter the HTML code for the landing page or click on the Import Site button to enter the URL of an existing webpage.

4) Check the Capture Submitted Data and the Capture Passwords boxes.

5) Enter a webpage URL for the webpage you want to send the victim after capturing their data in the Redirect to box.

6) Click on the Save Page button.

Setting Up A Phishing Campaign: Part 2

Phase 4 - Configure The Email Template

1) Navigate to the Email Templates page and click on the New Template button.

2) Give the template a Name.

3) Import the email by clicking on the Import Email button or enter the email subject and text manually using {{URL}} as the placeholder for the URL you want to include in the email.

4) Click on Save template.

Phase 5 - Set Up A Campaign

1) Navigate to the Campaigns page, click on the New Campaign button.

2) Give the Campaign a Name field.

3) From dropdowns select the elements you just created:
	Email template
	Landing Page
	Sending Profile

4) In the URL box enter your IP address.

5) Enter a Launch Date for the campaign.

6) Select the target group for the campaign in the Groups dropdown.

7) Click on the Launch Campaign button.

Campaign Results:

Viewing Results

After the campaign has launched, you can see the results on the Dashboard page. It shows you

1) How many emails were sent
2) How many emails were opened
3) How many victims clicked on the link
4) How many victims submitted data
5) How many victims reported the email (requires setting up a webhook)

In the Details section you can find more information about the tracked events. You can also export information as a CSV file.





























































