Models For Analyzing Data

After building links, we can analyze them to discover new information and develop conclusions about what we have discovered. There are three popular models to analyze the data:

	1) Tree (also known as the Hierarchical model)
	2) Universe (also known as the Circular model)
	3) Organic

Let’s go through them one by one:

Tree/Hierarchical

A Tree Model is the simplest form of data analysis.

1) Useful when we have to do a small scale OSINT data analysis.
2) Connections are built from the top (the root) towards the bottom (the leaves).
3) The higher the element, the more important it is.

Universe/Circular

A Universe model is a concentration-based model

1) Entities form a group when they have things in common.
2) The closer the elements are, the more links they share.
3) Helpful for OSINT Analysis on the influence that elements have on each other.
4) The Universe and Cirucluar names can be used interchangeably

Organic

The Organic Model rearranges the Circular model to provide better visibility.

1) The most important elements are the center, wrapped by other elements.
2) The more links elements share between them, the closer they get.
3) The distance between the two groups depends on their common attributes.
4) Used when we have a lot of data.

Creating Models in Maltego

Example Graph Walkthrough

1) Load the example graph by clicking on Maltego Icon > Tools > Open Example Graph

2) Switch to Hierarchical Layout to analyze the graph using the Tree Model

3) Switch to Circular Layout to analyze the graph using the Universe Model

4) Switch to Organic Layout to analyze the graph using the Organic model

Tip: Use a mouse wheel or your fingers on a touchpad to zoom in and out to see more details in the chart. You can also use the overview pane to move and zoom in.

New Terms

Leaf: The last element in a Tree Model

Organic Model: An OSINT analysis model that uses both concentration and distance structures. The distance between two concentrated groups depends on their common interests.

Root: The top element in a Tree Model

Tree Model: An OSINT analysis model

Universe/Circular Model: An OSINT analysis model that uses a concentration structure -- the more links elements have in common, the closer they get.

Further Reading

If you want to read more about the layouts supported by Maltego, read the Maltego documentation for the Graph Sidebar.(https://docs.maltego.com/support/solutions/articles/15000009615-graph-sidebar#layouts-4-8--0-1) It also covers advanced options like freezing and refreshing the graph and other views.










































