What We Covered In This Course

Awesome! You have finished all of the lessons in this course. Let’s review our journey.

Vulnerability Management

In this lesson we:

1) Learned how automated tools are used for vulnerability scanning.
2) Used Nessus to configure organizational policies and schedule scans.
3) Exported reports and exported data for processing by other tools.
4) Managed data to prioritize risk and manage response.
5) Calculated risk scores and assigned risk ratings manually using the CVSS common vulnerability scoring system.
6) Uses a CVSS vector to map the values on the NIST CVSS calculator.
7) Discussed false positives and false negatives and the limitations of automated scanning.

System Auditing

In this lesson we:

1) Used test scopes to understand the context and objective, review the guidelines, and understand the limits of a specific test.

2) Learned how to gather information and organize information about our target using NMap and the Metasploit Framework.

3) Used the information we gathered to research existing vulnerabilities and find their exploits.

4) Explored CVE’s and exploit codes, including proof of concept, public exploits, and commercial exploits.

5) Validated vulnerabilities by executing exploits.

6) Learned about how to write an effective report to share our results

7) Explored why some dangerous exploits are intentionally bugged to make them more difficult to use.

Application Auditing

In this lesson we:

1) Learned about OWASP WSTG methodology, including how to use the guide and perform tests.
2) Sent an HTTP request to a web application and analyzed the response codes.
3) Used Burp Suite, a semi-automated tool to reduce our manual workload and increase testing speed.
4) Learned how to use fully automated tools to quickly test thousands of predefined test cases for us in a matter of minutes.
5) Discussed the importance of continuous learning and learned about how many things there are to hack and test!

Social Engineering

In this lesson we:

1) Learned how malicious hackers take advantage of opportunities in human psychology to influence people to take actions that open vulnerabilities.
2) Conducted a phishing simulation campaign using the GoPhish Framework.
3) Learned about how to create and use malware using Metasploit.
4) Created a persuasive landing page to entice people to take a specific action.
5) Discussed the ethics of Social Engineering and how to use social engineering to protect an organization without hurting people.

OSINT

In this lesson we:

1) Used Exploratory Link Analysis to gather OSINT (open-source intelligence)
2) Mined data using the OSINT framework to find data sources.
3) Used Maltego to map our data, build links, establish relationships, grouping data into collections, and take notes about the data.
4) Analyzed links using the Tree, Universe, and Organic models to discover new information and build conclusions.
5) Learned how OSINT can also be used to target hackers and uncover their identities.


























































