Reconnaissance With MSF

The target IP address is mentioned as 10.10.10.20 in the video, but while experimenting you will consider the Testlab VM with IP address - 10.10.10.15.

Metasploit-Framework (MSF) is a toolkit that includes hundreds of tools and a workspace for testing. It automatically creates and maintains a target database in the workspace.

MSF can integrate with Nmap directly by replacing Nmap with db_nmap for scanning. All the scan results are automatically saved in the Metasploit target database of the selected workspace.

Apart from the Nmap integration, Metasploit features more than 500 built-in scanners which can be used to gather specific information from multiple services and applications.

Using Nmap and Metasploit-Framework:

1) Metasploit maintains all its data in Postgresql database so you can start the service using

service postgresql start

1) Initialize the database and check it's configurations using msfdb init

2) Launch Metasploit console using msfconsole

3) Create a workspace using workspace -a (workspace-name)

workspace -a udacity

1) Switch workspace using workspace udacity

2) We can run Nmap commands within the Metasploit using db_nmap and the results will automatically get saved in the target database of the current workspace.

db_nmap -p- -O -sT -sU -sV 10.10.10.15

1) To check the data stored in the target database, we use the commands hosts and services

Using Auxiliary Modules in Metasploit-Framework

We can do information gathering using the auxiliary modules. There are more than 500 scanners in Metasploit.

1) Find a scanner by usingsearch type:auxiliary (keyword) and specifying the type as auxiliary:

search type:auxiliary smb

1) To select a scanner from the list, you can use the use (module-name) command
use auxiliary/scanner/smb/smb1

1) To check the available options of the module, We can use "show options".

2) To change any option, We can use set (option) (option value)

set RHOST 10.10.10.15

1) Execute the scanner using the run command

New Terms:

Core-Impact: A commercial pentesting framework developed by Core Security that includes handcrafted premium exploits

Metasploit: A commercial pentesting framework developed by Rapid7

NMap (Network Mapper): A popular open-source reconnaissance tool

NSE (Nmap Scripting Engine): A tool to write and share scripts to automate a wide variety of networking tasks

Target Database: A spreadsheet or specialized tool to store data collected during reconnaissance

Further Reading:

If you want to learn more about information gathering, you can read this guide from Security Trails: Information Gathering: Concept, Techniques, and Tools explained(https://securitytrails.com/blog/information-gathering). It contains actionable insights and information about other tools you can use.

To learn more about how to use Nmap, check out their documentation: Nmap Reference Guide - Chapter 15(https://nmap.org/book/man.html). You'll refer to this guide frequently as an Ethical Hacker.

You can refer to this guide from Offensive Security: Metasploit Unleashed(https://www.offensive-security.com/metasploit-unleashed/port-scanning/) to learn more about the Metasploit-Framework.



















